you
[Music]
on May 20 1993 26 years ago today
television audiences said farewell to
Sam Malone the fictional Red Sox pitcher
turn appropriator of Tears
you're watching another episode of how
they changed unless raise a glass to
Cheers very filling in some of the shows
Kyra's behind the scenes truth
cheers almost didn't make it through
season one like many of televisions
create a success stories for example
Seinfeld tears was not an immediate hit
it premiered on September 30 1982 to the
small ratings 77024 hand red shows that
week according to Nielsen it was NBC's
in the team and president at the time
Brandon Tartikoff who saved the show
from cancellation during its first
season the bull and Finch pub on which
chairs is modeled is now called tears
talk about life imitating art after it
was decided that the series would be sat
in a bar instead of a hotel co-creators
Glenn and les Charles decided the locale
should be moved to New England Boston
was chosen partially because only five
short-lived television shows claimed the
city in the East Coast pubs were real
neighborhood hangouts Road NSA Bjorklund
in his book toasting tears as the show's
popularity rose it didn't take long for
word to spread that the Beacon Hill
Tavern was the real cheese there only
the exterior shots were from there
burning the neighborhood hangout in the
tourist attraction to satisfy the masses
the second location
this one actually called cheese and
featuring replicas of the bar views were
used to was opened in nearby phono Hall
in 2001 one year later the bull and
Finch officially changed its name to
Cheers
Sam Malone was originally a professional
football player in the scripts earliest
incarnations Sam Malone was an Oxford
will player which made sales considering
that Fred rod former NFL defensive and
who'll go on to star in Hunter was a top
choice to play the role of Sam opposite
Julia Duffy stay on William Devane was
also strong contender ultimately it was
the chemistry between Ted Danson and
Shelley long that led to them getting
the gigs once the casting was finalized
the creator's walked out football for
baseball based on Danson's body type
that Danson attended bartending score
Henson spent two weeks at a bartending
school in Burbank California as part of
his training to place him norman cliff
weren't intended to be regular
characters both george wind and john
ratzenberger auditioned for the same
role in the pilot a minor character
named jawed who had a single line beer
the character's name was changed to norm
Patterson when Wendt was cast but
Ratzenberger wasn't about to give up so
easily as I was leaving the office after
the audition I turned around and asked
them we have a bar knowitall the
Bridgeport Connecticut born Ratzenberger
recalled to ability magazine none of the
creator's was from New England they were
all Hollywood centered and I said well
every local bar in New England has got
and know-it-all someone who pretends to
have the knowledge of all mankind
between his ears and is not shy about
sharing it
thus cliff Clavin was born norm Peterson
is based on the real guy in 2012
co-create Celeste Charles told that norm
was based on the real person I worked it
up after college and we had a guy who
came in every night he wasn't named norm
but he was always going to have just one
beer and then he'd say maybe now just
have one more we had to help him out of
the bar every night his wife would call
and he'd always say tell her I'm not
here
Norm's never seen why Farah is voiced by
George windstream wife now she's only
credited in one Episode George Burns
wife
Bernadette Burkett provided the voice
for Norm's wife Vera Burke it did make
one appearance on the show is a love
interest of cliffs in season three John
Ratzenberger improvised many of cliffs
fan facts many of the random fm true
facts that cliff Clavin offers up were
ad lived by Ratzenberger after a couple
of years on the show they realized they
could trust me not to mess it up
Ratzenberger told the Deseret News in
1993 so little by little they have let
me just sort of run off because I know
when to stop it's easy to improvise
comedy it really is but heart is knowing
when to shut up and let other people
talk that's a hard thing to learn some
of the dollar came from real bar
conversations in order to nail the bar
talk aspect of the series the creator's
regularly visited bars in the Los
Angeles area to eavesdrop on patrons
conversations in the series premiere
prison document about the sweetest movie
ever made which was lifted from one of
these overheard conversations cheese
wasn't afraid to tackle social issues
cheese's riotous never shied away from
taboo topics such as alcoholism Ohama
sexuality
now the always had a sense of humor
about them this is the one episode the
boys in the bar in which one of Sam's
former teammates announces that he's gay
and riders Ken Levin and David ice XP
GLAAD Media Award
Raya was not the only permanent asset
Rhea Perlman wasn't the only member of
her family to grace the set of tears her
younger sister Heidi reduced more than
two dozen episodes between 1985 in 1986
and wrote several episodes throughout
the show's run Herman's father Phil
played one of the bar regulars named
Phil death homers murdered Eddie Lebec
when character actor Jay Thomas wasn't
portraying colors Bruin turned I show P
former husband Eddie Lebec he was the
host of a popular morning radio show in
Los Angeles which is exactly what led to
his character being killed off rather
prematurely by way of Zamboni a few
episodes of recurring beliefs and then
one day on Jays radio show the caller
asked him what it was like to be on
chairs recounted writer ken Levine he
said something to the effect of it's
brutal I have to kiss Rhea Perlman well
guess who happened to be listening Jay
Thomas was never seen on tears again a
cheers mini episode was produced for the
yes treasury early and cheers is run his
creators were contracted by the US
Treasury to create a special mini
episode to promote the purchase of years
savings bonds titled Uncle Sam Malone
the episode never aired on television
noise it included on any of the DVDs it
was intended to be screened for
promotional purposes at savings bond
drives on me
[Music]
I lost seen also aired as a part of 1983
Super Bowl 7 program show back in early
1983 writers can Levin and David Isaac's
wrote a special one-off scene to air
before Super Bowl 7 in which Sam Diane
Carl norm cliff in NBC announcer Pete
exhale battle who will win the big game
they ran a just before game time and it
was seen by 8 million people
lemon recalled of the sport on his blog
nothing we have ever written before sins
has been seen by a third many eyeballs
at one time but the scene was never
repeated it never appeared on any DVDs
it just disappeared they're dancin were
happy is to play hare obsessed them
effect that became apparent when he
accepted the Emmy son's hairpiece in
1990 in the 1993 episode it's lonely on
the top
Sam shares his follicular challenge with
Carla he is frequently complained about
the volume of the love track even though
there was no laugh track in 1983 a quick
disclaimer spoken by one of the regular
cast members was added to the beginning
of each episode chess was filmed before
live studio audience this was a direct
response to viewer complaints that the
love track was too loud
and that's all for now don't forget to
leave a like to support our channel
subscribe and share this video
take care friends
[Music]
you